The Project Gutenberg EBook of Mutiny, by Larry Offenbecker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Mutiny

Author: Larry Offenbecker

Release Date: November 08, 2020 [EBook #63675]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MUTINY ***
MUTINY

by LARRY OFFENBECKER

This mercy rocket was Rawson's first command;
and his last, it seemed—for mutineers had taken
over, then lost the ship in a quicksand pool.
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Planet Stories Fall 1945.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
Captain Todd Rawson snapped angry eyes at the directional needle that indicated that his space ship the Star Flight was holding steady to her course like a bullet. He had ordered differently.
He was savagely kicking back his chair when the televisor leaped into life.
"Calling the Star Flight," the control officer from Saturn intoned, "Calling the Star Flight."
Rawson clicked a switch, continued to glare at the directional needle. "Rawson—Star Flight." His voice was richly vibrant and charged with emotion. "Running into spatial storm. Must detour to tangent to course. Will be late."
"For God's sake!" The voice from Saturn was urgent. "The plague is wiping out the entire colony! Hurry!"
"We'll get the serum there! Out!"
Rawson glanced once more at the unwavering needle of the direction indicator, and he switched off the televisor with such abrupt force that he broke off the dial. He tore from his desk and rumbled like a Jupiter avalanche across the vibrating deck of the Star Flight into the rocket room. "Mr. Durk, I ordered the rockets reversed."
The crew men looked up, winking at each other. This was it!
Durk raised a short, blunt body like a Venusian alligator and lumbered to attention. His voice came in a hoarse growl.
"The Old Man—you young punks think you know everything! The old man would 'a' headed right into the storm!"
Captain Rawson flushed slightly and felt the tips of his ears turn hot as he stared at the man who was twenty years his senior—the man who had twenty-five years of experience in space flight.
"I'm the captain here," Rawson said in a voice as steady as the beat of the motors. "My commands are to be obeyed without question."
"Sure, now, you're the captain." Durk winked slyly at one of the crew. "You got a gold star and the fixings. But we ain't goin' to get ourselves killed on account o' something you learned in a book."
Surprisingly Rawson laughed, a deep-throated laugh, although he knew that he had to break this man or be broken himself. His words lashed out like a cat-o-nine tails at the senior officer.
"Mr. Durk, don't let your bitterness defeat your common sense. The old man knew all the tricks. You know them. But space navigation has advanced to a science. It requires more than rule of thumb knowledge."
"I ain't going to reverse the rockets!"
Rawson looked at the stolid faces of the space hardened crew. Veterans all. The underofficer's men.
When he spoke, Rawson's words came in smooth, clipped phrases. "Mr. Durk, I'll explain briefly why it would be fatal to head straight into the storm. The instruments indicate that the storm drift ahead of the ship is heavily charged with electrons. Our space ship is a charged body. Breaking the relation of the space ship and the drift down mathematically we have the equation
V equals q/r
where V is the velocity of the ship and q the potential of the electronic charge in the center of the drift, and r the radius."
Rawson watched the underofficer's face grow longer and longer, but determinedly he continued.
"Should we head directly into the drift we will be up against the following law—the shorter the distance in which a given amount of work is done the greater the force that must be exerted. We will be stalled in the center of the drift. To avoid disaster, the direction of the drift must be at right angles at every point to the space ship. Do you follow?"
Mingled with the lack of comprehension in Durk's eyes was intense bitterness—bitterness over not being appointed captain of the Star Flight after the death of the previous chief officer, whom Durk affectionately called "the old man".
Durk was starting a growl deep down in his alligator throat when the situation was taken out of his hands by the immutable laws that Rawson had just expounded.
The vessel jerked with a huge shudder that threw Rawson and the rest of the crew off balance.
With a screech of metal the space ship picked up speed as it was drawn into the potential in the center of the drift as well as being pushed by the power of its rockets.
With greyhound leaps, Rawson tore towards the control dials and twisted the wheels of the gyroscope. The ship groaned and reeled. It refused to heed the control.
"Power! Reverse the power!" Rawson screeched into the intercom. "Reverse the rockets!"
He felt the instruments tremble under his hands like reeds. Suddenly the rockets went dead. Then as the crew reversed the power, they roared to life again.
The Star Flight jerked in a death struggle. The rockets rattled and screamed as if sand had been thrown into the atom chargers.
Slowly the ship turned over, tilting at right angles to the drift.
A blinding flash like a bolt of lightning flamed across the power panels. The lights suddenly died. The ship was in darkness.
Rawson tore at the emergency switches, got them under control. A banshee wail sounded throughout the Star Flight. "Emergency! Emergency!"
In the darkness in back of him, Rawson heard the alligator bark of Underofficer Durk. "Ship out of control, eh? We're drifting, eh? See if your book learnin' 'll get yuh out o' this!"
Rawson turned, and his voice was icy. "Mr. Durk! Consider yourself under arrest!"
"Ha, ha, ha—"
Durk's laugh made the short hairs on Rawson's neck tingle. But Rawson snapped back in a voice that he tried to hold steady. "You're an excellent underofficer, Durk—when you obey commands. But you'll never be captain!"